A company is designing a Spring / Damper / Mass system similar to that seen below.
The system will be used as part of a loading platform, where a load will be placed
upon the platform for transportation. The company have asked you to simulate the
system using a MATLAB script and a Simulink model, and using various values for
each parameter to help with their final design process.
They will be providing you with various combinations of values for the platform
mass, spring, and damper in Excel format, and would like the script to test each
set of values automatically in terms of displacement. This will allow the optimum
values to be found for the system requirements, when a force is applied in a step
response (the load).
The company has asked for each set of values to be simulated using two methods
within the same MATLAB script, as comparison results. They would also like the
results of both methods to be shown on a graph, with a separate graph for each
combination of values.
The Simulink model will be used as an alternative method of testing the system
by the company staff, and should be called automatically from the MATLAB script.
It should be a representation of the differential equation of the system.
A comparison result should also be achieved in the same model through the
derivation of the system transfer function, and applying it to the Simulink model.
These values should be then imported back into the MATLAB script and displayed
on a graph in the same fashion as described above.
Your line manager has provided you with a list of tasks that the program needs
to meet the specification required from the company. This will be used as a starting
point for the script to be created. They have also asked for you to produce a report
to include the methods and findings for both the MATLAB script and the Simulink
model.
As previously stated, the values provided for testing will be in the format of an
Excel document. However, there are several issues with the data. Firstly, a mistake
has been flagged that some of the data damper values have been given as 22.9, when
the correct value should be 29.2. Secondly, the sample only contains a limited set
of values. (The real data will be of an unknown length, so the script will have to
work for a data set of any size.)
the force that will be applied to the platform will be calculated from the mass
of the object placed on the platform, and its acceleration due to gravity.
The mass of the object will be calculated from your student number, and the
value of 9.81m/s2 will be used for gravity.
(NOTE: Do not get this mass value confused with that of the platform. This is
the mass of the object being placed upon the platform mass).

Using your knowledge of MATLAB and coding techniques including loops, condi-
tionals, and functions. Create a MATLAB script to fulfil the scenario described
above, to show the step response of the system. Your line manager has provide you
with the following breakdown of tasks that the script needs to perform as required.
Make sure the script is nicely commented so your line manager can see exactly what
has been coded.
• The value of OBJECT mass to be applied to the system will be calculated
from the final three digits of your student number represented here by xyz,
and applied to the following equation. Display this value and the last three
digits of your student number to the console.
T = 45 × xyz
999 + 5 (1)
Calculate this within the MATLAB script, and round it up to 1dp. (2 Marks)
• Calculate the force that will be applied to the system by the object, and display
both the mass and the force to the console. (2 Marks).
• Import the Excel data provided and convert the data to array format.(2 Marks)
• Correct wrongly entered spring values for a data set of any length. Then
display the entire data set to the console in a table format (4 Marks)
• Request the time length of the simulation as an input from the user and assign
it to the relevant variable. (2 Marks)
• Use your knowledge of loops and arrays to provide the simulation results for
a data set of unknown length. (5 Marks)
• Write a function to represent the system in the form of a differential equation,
and solve it with each set of values using the ode45 function. (5 Marks)
• Create a function that uses the Euler integration method, using a suitable
time-step to do the same as above. (6 Marks)
• Companion Simulnk model called, and resulting values returned (2 Marks
• Plot the results of both MATLAB methods on the same graph to compare the
results, and use a second graph to display results imported from the Simulink
model. Have a separate set of graphs for each row of dataset values, ensuring
that each graph is correctly titled, labeled, and all results can be seen clearly.(5
Marks)
• The correct use of commenting and naming conventions. (3 Marks)
• Good coding structure, understanding and technique. (2 Marks)
Total 40 marks

Create a Simulink model to represent and solve the differential equation that rep-
resents the suspension system, and output the response of the system to a scope.
Then derive and add the transfer function of the system sending the results to the
same scope for comparison. Use the values for the mass, damper and spring from
the first row of the sample data, and the value of force that was calculated in the
MATLAB script, to test the response.
• Creation of the system differential equation model in Simulink with resulting
values passed back to the MATLAB script (8 marks)
• Calculation of system transfer function and correct blocks to the Simulink
model with the resulting values passed back to the MATLAB script.

